# Preamble

The Bylaws of the Chinese Alliance Christian Church shall be in accordance with
the Constitution and Bylaws of The Christian and Missionary Alliance of New
Zealand ("The Alliance").

## Article I The Name

The Church shall be known as the Chinese Alliance Christian Church ("The
Church") of The Alliance.

## Article II Purpose

The ultimate purpose of The Church is to glorify God, and to be diligent in
preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ, leading people to become disciples, and
nurturing them to be faithful believers and members of The Church.

## Article III Doctrinal Statement

The Church accepts "The Doctrinal Statement of the Alliance" as outlined in
Article III of the General Constitution of The Alliance.

## Article IV Relationship

The parent body of this church is The Alliance. The Church is subordinate to the
constitution of that body. The Church shall contribute financially towards the
funds of The Alliance as prescribed by the General Council.

The Church shall financially support the pastor(s), the full-time church workers
and any delegates to attend the Annual General Council of The Alliance.

## Article V Church Membership

### Section I Qualifications

1. A credible testimony of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ before the Board of
   Elders and a confession of faith by baptism.

2. Acceptance of “The Doctrinal Statement of the Alliance” and be in agreement
   with the principles and objects of The Alliance and co-operation by
   contributing to its work.

### Section II Types Of Membership

1. Active Membership

   Members who are actively attending and supporting The Church.

2. Honorary Membership

   Members who are serving in full-time Christian ministry elsewhere but express
   a desire in writing to maintain their membership. Honorary members have no
   voting privileges at membership meetings of The Church.

3. Associate Membership

   Members who are not actively attending and supporting The Church for one year
   and have not withdrawn their membership. Associate Membership confers the
   right to debate but not to vote in membership meetings of The Church. After
   one year, Associate Members shall automatically lose their membership unless
   they apply annually, in writing to extend their Associate Membership and it
   is accepted by the Membership Committee.

### Section III Membership Committee

1. The Membership Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Elders with
   representation from the Pastoral Staff, Board of Elders and Executive
   Committee.

2. The membership list shall be reviewed by the Membership Committee annually at
   least four weeks before the Annual Membership Meeting.

### Section IV Withdrawal Of Membership

Members wishing to withdraw their membership shall indicate their intentions in
writing to the Secretary of the Board of Elders.

### Section V Preparatory Steps For Membership

1. Transference of membership from other churches may be made by letter of
   transfer, stating that the applicant is a member in good standing or by
   personal testimony giving satisfactory evidence of regeneration.

2. All membership applicants shall be interviewed and approved by the Board of
   Elders.

### Section VI Discipline Of Members

1. If, in the majority opinion of the Board of Elders, a member who by their
   behaviour or teaching is no longer acting in accordance with the biblical
   standards of The Church, the member shall be subject to the discipline of The
   Church. The purpose of discipline is restoration. Such discipline may take
   the form of: instruction and warning, correction and reprimand, a limitation
   of the members’ right to hold office by means of removal from office or the
   restriction from standing for office, a limitation of participation in the
   ordinances of The Church and, in extreme cases, termination of membership.

2. Any member being considered for such a disciplinary action shall be notified
   in writing of the charge and shall have the right to appear before the Board
   or Elders prior to the Board of Elders taking disciplinary action.

3. The Board of Elders shall maintain a detailed written record of disciplinary
   action and wherever possible, have the people involved sign a statement
   outlining the events, the disciplinary action taken, and reasons for such
   action. Such records shall be maintained for five years.

4. Disciplinary action shall be reported to the National Director’s office if
   necessary.

## Article VI Government

### Section I Chairman

The Senior Pastor or, in his absence the Assistant Pastor or the Senior Pastor's
appointee shall act as the Chairman of the Annual Membership Meeting or Special
Membership Meetings.

### Section II Annual Membership Meeting

1. Fiscal year

   The statistical and fiscal year for The Church shall be from 1 August through
   31 July

2. Business

   The Annual Membership Meeting shall receive reports from the Pastoral Staff,
   and from heads of the various departments of The Church, accept an audited
   report from the Treasurer, hold elections, and conduct such other business as
   may be presented in keeping with the bylaws.

3. Date

   To be held no later than the second Sunday of October in the new fiscal year.

4. Notification

   The notice for the meeting shall be announced and posted at least fourteen
   days prior to the time of the meeting.

5. Agenda

   The proposed agenda for the meeting shall be posted in a suitable location in
   The Church and the Manse at least seven days prior to the meeting.

6. Written reports

   Written reports for consideration at The Annual Membership Meeting shall be
   made available to members at least seven days prior to the meeting.

7. Employment: Employment of Senior Pastor and Ordained Pastors must be approved
   by majority of the members present at the Annual General Meeting or a Special
   Membership Meeting. Employment of co-workers, including Pastors,
   Administrators and other staff shall be approved by the Senior Pastor and the
   Executive Committee.

### Section III Special Membership Meeting

1. The date and purpose(s) of a Special Membership Meeting shall be announced
   and posted at least fourteen days prior to the meeting.

2. Either one-half of the Board of Elders or one-half of the Executive Committee
   may call a Special Members Meeting.

3. A minimum of ten percent of the active membership is required to request the
   Board of Elders to hold a Special Membership Meeting.

### Section IV Procedural Rules For Membership Meetings

1. Quorum

   The quorum for any Membership Meeting shall consist of fifty percent of the
   active members.

2. Rules of procedure

   Any motions presented by the Board of Elders or the Executive Committee may
   be accepted by a simple majority vote. All motions from the floor require two
   thirds of the votes in order to be accepted. These bylaws shall govern the
   proceedings at any Membership Meeting where applicable. In other cases, the
   current edition of Robert's Rules of Order shall apply. All types of members
   are entitled to participate in the deliberation in Membership Meetings but
   only active members eighteen years of age and older are entitled to vote.

3. Minutes

   Minutes of any Membership Meeting shall be submitted to the Board of Elders
   for action at their next meeting.

## Article VII Board Of Elders

### Section I Structure

1. The Board of Elders shall have a minimum number of four elected members and
   the Senior Pastor. The existing Board of Elders shall determine the maximum
   number. All full-time Pastoral Staff shall be "ex-officio" members.

2. The Senior Pastor shall be the Chairman or, at his request, the elders or the
   membership of The Church may elect a chairman annually from among the elected
   eldership.

3. The Chairman of the Board of Elders shall at their first meeting following
   the Annual Membership Meeting appoint his Vice Chairman. The Board of Elders
   shall elect the Secretary.

4. The quorum for the Board of Elders shall be a majority.

5. The Board of Elders shall meet at least once a month for prayer and business.

### Section II Term Of Office

1. The term of office for an elder is two years commencing October 1 of the year
   of election.

2. An elder may be elected up to three consecutive two year terms, following
   which he shall not hold office for at least one year.

3. If an elder is unable to complete his term, the Board of Elders may fill the
   vacancy by appointment until the next Membership Meeting.

4. The terms of office are to be staggered (i.e. only half of the Board is to be
   elected annually) to ensure continuity of leadership within the Board of
   Elders.

### Section III Qualifications Of Elder

1. An elder shall be a born-again Christian and baptised for at least seven
   years.

2. An elder shall satisfy the character requirements for church leadership as
   set forth in 1 Timothy 3 and Titus 1.

3. An elder must have been an active member of The Church for at least three
   years.

4. An elder must possess experience across a variety of areas of Christian
   ministry.

### Section IV Functions

The Elders shall serve with the Senior Pastor in the oversight of the spiritual
and administrative functions of The Church in the following areas. They may
appoint such officers or committees as are necessary to properly fulfil the
ministry of The Church.

1. To oversee preaching and teaching

2. To make decisions on matters of doctrine and practice affecting The Church.

3. For the provision of pastoral care, including visitation, counselling,
   anointing and prayer for the sick.

4. For examining candidates for membership, disciplining members and keeping the
   membership rolls up to date.

5. To oversee The Church's programmes to ensure their harmony and contribution
   to the purposes of The Church.

6. For appointing people to non-elected positions and for filling positions
   becoming vacant between annual meetings.

7. To issue calls to pastoral candidates with the approval of the Church
   Membership and the National Director.

8. To appoint a secretary who shall keep the minutes of all Elders Board
   meetings.

### Section V Individual Duties

1. Chairman

   The Chairman shall provide leadership to the Board of Elders and shall
   preside at regular and special meetings of the Board.

2. Vice Chairman

   The Vice Chairman shall assist the Chairman and perform the duties of the
   Chairman in the Chairman's absence.  The Vice Chairman shall also be the
   Chairman of the Executive Committee.

3. Secretary

   The Secretary shall keep the minutes of meetings of the Board of Elders and
   the Membership. He shall have the care of the corporate seal, if any, and
   ensure the safe keeping of the official records. He shall conduct the
   official correspondence of The Church as directed by the Board of Elders.

4. Others

   Other portfolios may be added or defined by the Board of Elders.

## Article VIII Executive Committee

### Section I Structure

1. The Executive Committee shall be elected at the Annual Membership Meeting
   with the exception of the Chairman. The Chairman of the Board of Elders
   shall appoint the Chairman of the Executive Committee.

2. The Executive Committee shall consist of the Chairman, Vice Chairman,
   Secretary, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer and other member(s). The Board of
   Elders shall determine the number of these other members and their duties.

3. In the absence of a Board of Elders, the Senior Pastor shall be the Chairman
   of the Executive Committee and he shall appoint the Vice Chairman.

4. The formation and operation of committees of various departments shall be
   initiated through the Executive Committee who shall appoint the committee
   members approved by the Board of Elders.

5. Leaders of standing committees and fellowships shall be reviewed by the
   department head and submitted for approval by the Executive Committee
   annually.

6. The quorum of the Executive Committee shall be a majority.

7. The Executive Committee shall meet at least once a month for prayer and
   business.

### Section II Term Of Office

1. The term of office for an Executive Committee member shall be two years.
   Executive Committee members may be elected or appointed up to three
   consecutive terms, following which they shall not hold office for at least
   one year.

2. If a member of the Executive Committee is absent from three consecutive
   meetings of the Executive Committee without due cause, the Board of Elders
   shall declare the position vacant and take steps to fill the position.

3. A member of the Executive Committee may resign via a letter of resignation to
   the Chairman of the Committee at least one month before the effective date.

### Section III Qualifications Of Executive Committee Members

1. An Executive Committee member shall be a born-again Christian and baptised
   for at least five years.

2. An Executive Committee member shall satisfy the character requirements for
   church leadership as set forth in 1 Timothy 3 and Acts 6.

3. An Executive Committee member must have been an active member of The Church
   and have attended The Church for at least two years.

### Section IV Responsibilities

1. The Executive Committee is amenable to the Board of Elders and shall manage
   the internal business and operations of The Church. They are to carry out the
   decisions and policies as established by the Board of Elders.

2. In the absence of a Board of Elders, the Executive Committee shall be
   responsible for the general business and operations of The Church. Any
   elected elders and all full-time Pastoral Staff shall be ex-officio members
   of the Executive Committee and shall be represented at all Executive
   Committee meetings.

### Section V Individual Duties

1. Chairman

   The Chairman who is the Vice Chairman of the Board of Elders shall provide
   leadership to the Executive Committee and shall preside at regular and
   special meetings of the Executive Committee.

2. Vice Chairman

   The Vice Chairman shall assist the Chairman and chair meetings of the
   Executive Committee in the Chairman's absence.

3. Secretary

   The Secretary shall keep the minutes of meetings of the Executive Committee,
   conduct the official correspondence and take safe care of the ownership
   documents of The Church.

4. Treasurer

   The Treasurer shall ensure that all Funds of The Church are received and
   disbursed as directed by the Executive Committee. He shall ensure that proper
   records are maintained and reported as required.

5. Assistant Treasurer

   The Assistant Treasurer shall be responsible for counting and depositing
   offering monies, issuing receipts to donors and co-signing cheques.

## Article IX Departments

Departments established under the authority of the Board of Elders shall be
amenable to the Board of Elders. The Nomination Committee is amenable to the
congregation.

## Article X Nominating Committee

The Nominating Committee shall consist of the Senior Pastor and four additional
members: two from the general membership and two from the Board of Elders (in
the absence of a Board of Elders, two from the Executive Committee). These four
members shall be elected by ballot by the respective bodies at least three
months prior to the Annual Membership meeting. The Senior Pastor or in his
absence the Assistant Pastor, or the Senior Pastor's appointee shall be the
Chairman of this committee.

## Article XI Elections

### Section I Nominations

1. The Nominating Committee shall have the consent of any nominee.

2. The Nominating Committee shall announce to the Membership, and post, at least
   four Sundays prior to the Annual Membership Meeting, at least two names for
   each office to be filled.

3. It is recommended that nominations from the Membership, if any, shall be made
   in writing, signed by two active members in good standing and filed with the
   Chairman of the Nominating Committee six weeks before the Annual Membership
   Meeting for discussion and evaluation by the Nominating Committee.

4. Nominations for Elders shall be made in writing, signed by two active members
   in good standing and filed with the Chairman of the Nominating Committee six
   weeks before the Annual Membership Meeting for discussion and evaluation by
   the Nominating Committee.

5. Those nominees who are not elected for a particular office will automatically
   become nominees for the Members At Large of the Executive Committee.

### Section II Elections

1. The members of the Board of Elders and the Executive Committee, with the
   exception of the Pastoral Staff and the Chairman of the Executive Committee,
   shall be elected at the Annual Membership Meeting.

2. Elections shall be by ballot and the nominees shall get 50% of the cast vote
   for him to be successfully elected. (The 50% rule is applicable to the
   elections of the Executive Committee Member and representatives from the
   general membership.

3. The Executive Committee shall appoint two active members to count the
   ballots, and shall invite two members of the pastoral staff or of the Board
   of Elders to supervise the proceedings.

## Article XII Property And Records

### Section I Property

1. Real Property

   The title to all real property shall be held by The Alliance. The Alliance
   National Leadership Team shall provide a declaration of trust indicating that
   the property is held in trust for The Church. The Church may acquire, sell,
   convey, exchange or encumber real property by order of The Church membership
   through the Executive Committee. Where trustees are required, the order of
   membership shall proceed through them.

2. Personal Property

   The Church may acquire, sell, improve, encumber and convey personal property
   for church purposes.

3. Dissolution

   Should The Church cease to exist or cease to be subject to the constitution
   of The Alliance, then all of its property, appurtenances, and effects, then
   owned or held by it shall enure to the benefit of, and become the property of
   The Alliance.

### Section II Records

1. The official records of all officers of The Church and all its departments
   are the property of The Church and shall be turned over to The Church upon
   relinquishing the office, for safe keeping in a secure repository designated
   by the Executive Committee.

2. An active member wishing to inspect the official records must make a request
   in writing to the Secretary of the Executive Committee and shall be subject
   to the approval of the Executive Committee.

### Section III Trustees

The Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer of the Executive Committee shall be
designated as trustees for a period of one year and shall be the signing
officers of The Church.

## Article XIII Finance

### Section I Annual Budget

1. The annual budget shall include the operating and capital budgets of all
   departments and projects of The Church.

2. The annual budget shall cover the fiscal year from 1 August to 31 July.

3. The annual budget shall be prepared by the Executive Committee by the third
   Sunday of July, reviewed by the Executive Committee by the second Sunday of
   August and presented to members for approval at the Annual Membership
   Meeting.

4. Approval shall be considered granted by a simple majority of members present
   at the Annual Membership Meeting or at a Special Membership Meeting.

5. After budget approval the Executive Committee shall exercise due diligence in
   the use of cash by setting priorities for spending with the objective of
   maintaining a balanced cash position.

### Section II Un-Budgeted Expenditures

1. Under certain circumstances, the Executive Committee may be required to incur
   un-budgeted expenditures of operating or capital nature. In these
   circumstances, the Executive Committee shall approve un-budgeted expenditures
   provided that the cumulative expenditures For all such items in a year does
   not exceed ten percent of the approved budget of The Church.
2. If the Executive Committee anticipates that un-budgeted expenditures for the
   year shall exceed the ten percent limit, as described above, the Executive
   Committee shall call a Special Membership Meeting for a revised budget
   approval.
3. The Executive Committee shall keep members informed of the amount of
   un-budgeted expenditures at appropriate times.

### Section III Accounting

1. Authorised signatory

   The authorised signatory of The Church shall be the Senior Pastor, the
   Treasurer and the Assistant Treasurer and one designated Elder and/or one
   designated member of the Executive Committee. All cheques shall be signed by
   any two of the above. All cheques in other departments (including
   fellowships) shall be signed by two persons who are appointed by the
   leadership of that department or fellowship.

2. Offerings

   Offerings in all departments (including fellowships) of The Church must be
   counted by two persons appointed by the leadership of that department.  No
   offerings shall be solicited from the congregation except by permission of
   the Executive Committee.  Receipts will be issued to offerings with proper
   identification up to the exact amount.

3. Records

   The Treasurer shall keep and maintain records of all incomes and expenses of
   the church.

### Section IV Auditing

The Executive Committee shall ensure that the financial records of all
departments (including fellowships) are reviewed at least annually or be order
of the Executive Committee at more frequent intervals.

## Article XIV Bylaws And Amendments

### Section I Bylaws

While there may be other translations of these by-laws, the English version
shall be the original.

### Section II Amendments

1. These bylaws may be amended by a two third majority of the votes cast by the
   members in a Membership Meeting and approved by the Board of Managers of New
   Zealand.

2. These by-laws have been drafted and approved by the Advisory Committee on 14
   of June 1993 and approved at the first Membership Meeting on 26 of June 1993
   and approved by the Board of Managers on 26 of June 1993.

3. The Board of Managers of New Zealand shall approve the Bylaws before becoming
   effective.

4. The masculine pronouns in these Bylaws shall also represent the feminine
   persons.
